readme.md, before:

# Vue Tables 2

[![npm version](https://badge.fury.io/js/vue-tables-2.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/js/vue-tables-2)

This Vue package offers an easy and intuitive way of displaying Bootstrap-styled grids with data coming either from the client or from the server.

Note: Users of VueJS 1 Please use [this](https://github.com/matfish2/vue-tables) package instead.

Note: As of version 0.4.0 the `childRowKey` option has been replaced by the more generic `uniqueKey` option.

- [Dependencies](#dependencies)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Usage](#usage)
    - [Client Side](#client-side)
    - [Server Side](#server-side)
- [Templates](#templates)
- [Child Rows](#child-rows)
- [Methods](#methods)
- [Events](#events)
- [Custom Filters](#custom-filters)
- [List Filters](#list-filters)
- [Custom Sorting](#custom-sotring)
- [Options](#options)
- [Issues Policy](#issues-policy)

# Dependencies

* Vue.js (>=2.0)
* axios OR vue-resource (>=0.9.0) OR jQuery (server-side component only)

## Compatibility

* Vuex (>=2.0)
* Bootstrap (CSS)

# Installation

    npm install vue-tables-2

Require the script:

    import {ServerTable, ClientTable, Event} from 'vue-tables-2';

# Usage

## Register the component(s)

    Vue.use(ClientTable, [options], [useVuex], [customTemplate]);

Or/And:

    Vue.use(ServerTable, [options], [useVuex], [customTemplate]);

* `useVuex` is a boolean indicating whether to use `vuex` for state management, or manage state on the component itself.
If you set it to `true` you must add a `name` prop to your table, which will be used to to register a module on your store.
Use `vue-devtools` to look under the hood and see the current state.
* `customTemplate` argument allows you to pass a custom template for the entire table.
You can find the main template file under `lib/template.js`, which in turn requires the partials in the `template` folder.
The template is written using `jsx`, so you will need a [jsx compiler](https://github.com/vuejs/babel-plugin-transform-vue-jsx) to modify it (the package is using the compiled version under the `compiled` folder).
Copy it to your project and modify to your needs.

Note: The template file is a function that receives a `source` parameter (`client` or `server`). E.g:

```jsx
Vue.use(ClientTable, {}, false, require('./template.js')('client'))
```

## Client Side

Add the following element to your page wherever you want it to render.
Make sure to wrap it with a parent element you can latch your vue instance into.

```html
<div id="people">
  <v-client-table :data="tableData" :columns="columns" :options="options"></v-client-table>
</div>
```

Create a new Vue instance (You can also nest it within other components). An example works best to illustrate the syntax:

```jsx
new Vue({
    el:"#people",
    data: {
        columns: ['id','name','age'],
        tableData: [
            {id:1, name:"John",age:"20"},
            {id:2, name:"Jane",age:"24"},
            {id:3, name:"Susan",age:"16"},
            {id:4, name:"Chris",age:"55"},
            {id:5, name:"Dan",age:"40"}
        ],
        options: {
            // see the options API
        }
    }
});
```

  You can access the filtered dataset at any given moment by fetching the `filteredData` computed property of the table, using `ref` as a pointer (`this.$refs.myTable.filteredData`);

  Important: when loading data asynchronously add a `v-if` conditional to the component along with some `loaded` flag, so it will only compile once the data is attached.

## Server side

```html
<div id="people">
  <v-server-table url="/people" :columns="columns" :options="options"></v-server-table>
</div>
```

Javascript:

```jsx
new Vue({
    el: "#people",
    data: {
        columns: ['id','name','age'],
        options: {
            // see the options API
        }
    }
});
```

All the data is passed in the following GET parameters: `query`,`limit`,`page`,`orderBy`,`ascending`,`byColumn`.
You need to return a JSON object with two properties:

  `data` `array` - An array of row objects with identical keys.

  `count` `number` - Total count before limit.

Note: If you are calling a foreign API or simply want to use your own keys, refer to the `responseAdapter` option.

### Implementations

  I have included [an Eloquent implementation](https://github.com/matfish2/vue-tables/tree/master/server/PHP) for Laravel Users.
  If you happen to write other implementations for PHP or other languages, a pull request would be most welcome, under the following guidelines:

  a. Include the class under `./server/{language}`.

  b. Name it according to convention: `{concrete}VueTables`.

  c. if this is the first implementation in this language add an interface similar to the one found in the PHP folder.

  d. Have it implement the interface.

  e. TEST IT.

# Templates

Templates allow you to wrap your cells with vue-compiled HTML. Their syntax is similar to that of `render` functions, as it leverages the virtual DOM to bind the templates into the main table template.
It is recommended to use JSX, which closely resembles HTML, to write the templates (To compile jsx you need to install the [vue jsx transform](https://github.com/vuejs/babel-plugin-transform-vue-jsx)).

E.g.:

```jsx
data : {
    columns: ['erase'],
    options: {
        ...
        templates: {
            erase: function(h, row) {
                return <delete id={row.id}></delete>
            }
        }
        ...
    }
}
```

The first parameter is the `h` scope used to compile the element. It MUST be called `h`.
The second parameter gives you access to the row data.
In addition a `this` context will be available, which refers to the root vue instance. This allows you to call your own instance methods directly.
Note: when using a `.vue` file `jsx` must be imported from a dedicated `.jsx` file in order to compile correctly. E.g

edit.jsx

```jsx
export default function(h, row) {
   return <a class='fa fa-edit' href={'#/' + row.id + '/edit'}></a>
}
```

app.vue

```vue
<script>
import edit from './edit'

templates: {
   edit
}
</script>
```

A Second option to for creating templates is to encapsulate the template within a component and pass the name. The component must have a `data` property, which will receive the row object. E.g:

```jsx
Vue.component('delete', {
    props:['data'],
    template:`<a class='delete' @click='erase'></a>`,
    methods:{
        erase() {
            let id = this.data.id; // delete the item
        }
    }
});
```

```jsx
options: {
    ...
    templates: {
        erase: 'delete'
    }
    ...
}
```

This method allows you to also use single page .vue files for displaying the template data
E.g:
edit.vue

```vue
<template>
    <a class="fa fa-edit" :href="edit(data.id)">Edit</a>
</template>
<script>
    export default {
        props:['data'],
    }
</script>
```

app.vue

```vue
<script>
import edit from './edit'

templates:{
   edit
}
</script>
```

If you are using Vue 2.1.0 and above, you can use [scoped slots](https://vuejs.org/v2/guide/components.html#Scoped-Slots) to create templates:

```html
 <v-client-table :data="entries" :columns="['id', 'name' ,'age', 'edit']">
      <template slot="edit" scope="props">
        <div>
            <a class="fa fa-edit" :href="edit(props.row.id)"></a>
        </div>
      </template>
    </v-client-table>
```

**Important**:
* To use components in your templates they must be declared **globally** using `Vue.component()`.
* Templates must be declared in the `columns` prop

Note: Don't include HTML directly in your dataset, as it will be parsed as plain text.

# Child Rows

Child rows allow for a custom designed output area, namely a hidden child row underneath each row, whose content you are free to set yourself.
When using the `childRow` option you must pass a unqiue `id` property for each row, which is used to track the current state.
If your identifer key is not `id`, use the `uniqueKey` option to set it.

The syntax is identincal to that of templates:

```jsx
options:{
  ...
  childRow: function(h, row) {
    return <div>My custom content for row {row.id}</div>
  }
  ...
}
```

Or you can pass a component name: (See `Templates` above for a complete example)

```jsx
options:{
      ...
      childRow: 'row-component'
      ...
}
```

When the plugin detects a `childRow` function it appends the child rows and prepends to each row an additional toggler column with a `span` you can design to your liking.

Example styling (also found in `style.css`):
```css
.VueTables__child-row-toggler {
  width:16px;
  height:16px;
  line-height: 16px;
  display: block;
  margin: auto;
  text-align: center;
}

.VueTables__child-row-toggler--closed::before {
   content: "+";
}

.VueTables__child-row-toggler--open::before  {
    content: "-";
}
```

You can also trigger the child row toggler programmtically. E.g, to toggle the row with an id of 4:

```js
this.$refs.myTable.toggleChildRow(4); // replace myTable with your own ref
```

### Methods

Call methods on your instance using the [`ref`](http://vuejs.org/api/#ref) attribute.

* `setPage(page)`
* `setLimit(recordsPerPage)`
* `setOrder(column, isAscending)`
* `setFilter(query)` - `query` should be a string, or an object if `filterByColumn` is set to `true`.
* `refresh()` Server component only

### Events

Using Custom Events (For child-parent communication):

```html
    <v-server-table :columns="columns" url="/getData" @loaded="onLoaded"></v-server-table>
```

Using the event bus:

```jsx
Event.$on('vue-tables.loaded', function (data) {
    // Do something
});
```

Using Vuex:

    mutations:{
      ['tableName/LOADED'] (state, data) {
        // Do something
      }
    }

`vue-tables.loading` | `tableName/LOADING` (server)

Fires off when a request is sent to the server. Sends through the request data.

`vue-tables.loaded` | `tableName/LOADED` (server)

Fires off after the response data has been attached to the table. Sends through the response.

You can listen to those complementary events on a parent component and use them to add and remove a *loading indicator*, respectively.

`vue-tables.error` | `tableName/ERROR` (server-side)

Fires off if the server returns an invalid code. Sends through the error

`vue-tables.row-click` | `tableName/ROW_CLICK`

Fires off after a row was clicked. sends through the row.
When using the client component, if you want to recieve the *original* row, so that it can be directly mutated, you must have a unique row identifier.
The key defaults to `id`, but can be changed using the `uniqueKey` option.

# Custom Filters

Custom filters allow you to integrate your own filters into the plugin using Vue's events system.

## Client Side Filters

A. use the `customFilters` option to declare your filters, following this syntax:

```js
customFilters: [
    {
        name:'alphabet',
        callback: function(row, query) {
            return row.name[0] == query;
        }
    }
]
```

B.
* Using the event bus:

```js
Event.$emit('vue-tables.filter::alphabet', query);
```

* Using `vuex`:

```js
this.$store.commit('myTable/SET_CUSTOM_FILTER', {filter:'alphabet', value:query})
```

## Server Side Filters

A. use the `customFilters` option to declare your filters, following this syntax:

      customFilters: ['alphabet','age-range']

B. the same as in the client component.

# List Filters

When filtering by column (option `filterByColumn:true`), the `listColumns` option allows for filtering columns whose values are part of a list, using a select box instead of the default free-text filter.

For example:

      options: {
        filterByColumn:true,
        listColumns:{
          animal: [
            {id:1, text:'Dog'},
            {id:2, text:'Cat'},
            {id:3, text:'Tiger'},
            {id:4, text:'Bear'}
          ]
        }
      }

The values of this column should correspond to the `id`'s passed to the list.
They will be automatically converted to their textual representation.

# Custom Sorting (Client Component)

Sometimes you may one to override the default sorting logic which is applied uniformly to all columns.
To do so use the `customSorting` option. This is an object that recieves custom logic for specific columns.
E.g, to sort the `name` column by the last character:

```js
customSorting:{
    name: function(ascending) {
    return function(a, b) {
        var lastA = a.name[a.name.length-1].toLowerCase();
        var lastB = b.name[b.name.length-1].toLowerCase();

         if (ascending)
            return lastA <= lastB?1:-1;

        return lastA >= lastB?1:-1;
    }
}
```

# Options

Options are set in three layers, where the more particular overrides the more general.

1. Pre-defined component defaults.
2. Applicable user-defined defaults for the global Vue Instance. Passed as the second paramter to the `Use` statement.
3. Options for a single table, passed through the `options` prop.

[EXPLORE OPTIONS](//jsfiddle.net/matfish2/823jzuzc/embedded/result/)

-----------------
CSS Note: to center the pagination apply `text-align:center` to the wrapping element

Commit message:

add mouse event to row-click payload (#128)

readme.md, after:

# Vue Tables 2

[![npm version](https://badge.fury.io/js/vue-tables-2.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/js/vue-tables-2)

This Vue package offers an easy and intuitive way of displaying Bootstrap-styled grids with data coming either from the client or from the server.

Note: Users of VueJS 1 Please use [this](https://github.com/matfish2/vue-tables) package instead.

Note: As of version 0.5.0 the `row-click` event sends along an object containing the row and the mouse event.

- [Dependencies](#dependencies)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Usage](#usage)
    - [Client Side](#client-side)
    - [Server Side](#server-side)
- [Templates](#templates)
- [Child Rows](#child-rows)
- [Methods](#methods)
- [Events](#events)
- [Custom Filters](#custom-filters)
- [List Filters](#list-filters)
- [Custom Sorting](#custom-sotring)
- [Options](#options)
- [Issues Policy](#issues-policy)

# Dependencies

* Vue.js (>=2.0)
* axios OR vue-resource (>=0.9.0) OR jQuery (server-side component only)

## Compatibility

* Vuex (>=2.0)
* Bootstrap (CSS)

# Installation

    npm install vue-tables-2

Require the script:

    import {ServerTable, ClientTable, Event} from 'vue-tables-2';

# Usage

## Register the component(s)

    Vue.use(ClientTable, [options], [useVuex], [customTemplate]);

Or/And:

    Vue.use(ServerTable, [options], [useVuex], [customTemplate]);

* `useVuex` is a boolean indicating whether to use `vuex` for state management, or manage state on the component itself.
If you set it to `true` you must add a `name` prop to your table, which will be used to to register a module on your store.
Use `vue-devtools` to look under the hood and see the current state.
* `customTemplate` argument allows you to pass a custom template for the entire table.
You can find the main template file under `lib/template.js`, which in turn requires the partials in the `template` folder.
The template is written using `jsx`, so you will need a [jsx compiler](https://github.com/vuejs/babel-plugin-transform-vue-jsx) to modify it (the package is using the compiled version under the `compiled` folder).
Copy it to your project and modify to your needs.

Note: The template file is a function that receives a `source` parameter (`client` or `server`). E.g:

```jsx
Vue.use(ClientTable, {}, false, require('./template.js')('client'))
```

## Client Side

Add the following element to your page wherever you want it to render.
Make sure to wrap it with a parent element you can latch your vue instance into.

```html
<div id="people">
  <v-client-table :data="tableData" :columns="columns" :options="options"></v-client-table>
</div>
```

Create a new Vue instance (You can also nest it within other components). An example works best to illustrate the syntax:

```jsx
new Vue({
    el:"#people",
    data: {
        columns: ['id','name','age'],
        tableData: [
            {id:1, name:"John",age:"20"},
            {id:2, name:"Jane",age:"24"},
            {id:3, name:"Susan",age:"16"},
            {id:4, name:"Chris",age:"55"},
            {id:5, name:"Dan",age:"40"}
        ],
        options: {
            // see the options API
        }
    }
});
```

  You can access the filtered dataset at any given moment by fetching the `filteredData` computed property of the table, using `ref` as a pointer (`this.$refs.myTable.filteredData`);

  Important: when loading data asynchronously add a `v-if` conditional to the component along with some `loaded` flag, so it will only compile once the data is attached.

## Server side

```html
<div id="people">
  <v-server-table url="/people" :columns="columns" :options="options"></v-server-table>
</div>
```

Javascript:

```jsx
new Vue({
    el: "#people",
    data: {
        columns: ['id','name','age'],
        options: {
            // see the options API
        }
    }
});
```

All the data is passed in the following GET parameters: `query`,`limit`,`page`,`orderBy`,`ascending`,`byColumn`.
You need to return a JSON object with two properties:

  `data` `array` - An array of row objects with identical keys.

  `count` `number` - Total count before limit.

Note: If you are calling a foreign API or simply want to use your own keys, refer to the `responseAdapter` option.

### Implementations

  I have included [an Eloquent implementation](https://github.com/matfish2/vue-tables/tree/master/server/PHP) for Laravel Users.
  If you happen to write other implementations for PHP or other languages, a pull request would be most welcome, under the following guidelines:

  a. Include the class under `./server/{language}`.

  b. Name it according to convention: `{concrete}VueTables`.

  c. if this is the first implementation in this language add an interface similar to the one found in the PHP folder.

  d. Have it implement the interface.

  e. TEST IT.

# Templates

Templates allow you to wrap your cells with vue-compiled HTML. Their syntax is similar to that of `render` functions, as it leverages the virtual DOM to bind the templates into the main table template.
It is recommended to use JSX, which closely resembles HTML, to write the templates (To compile jsx you need to install the [vue jsx transform](https://github.com/vuejs/babel-plugin-transform-vue-jsx)).

E.g.:

```jsx
data : {
    columns: ['erase'],
    options: {
        ...
        templates: {
            erase: function(h, row) {
                return <delete id={row.id}></delete>
            }
        }
        ...
    }
}
```

The first parameter is the `h` scope used to compile the element. It MUST be called `h`.
The second parameter gives you access to the row data.
In addition a `this` context will be available, which refers to the root vue instance. This allows you to call your own instance methods directly.
Note: when using a `.vue` file `jsx` must be imported from a dedicated `.jsx` file in order to compile correctly. E.g

edit.jsx

```jsx
export default function(h, row) {
   return <a class='fa fa-edit' href={'#/' + row.id + '/edit'}></a>
}
```

app.vue

```vue
<script>
import edit from './edit'

templates: {
   edit
}
</script>
```

A Second option to for creating templates is to encapsulate the template within a component and pass the name. The component must have a `data` property, which will receive the row object. E.g:

```jsx
Vue.component('delete', {
    props:['data'],
    template:`<a class='delete' @click='erase'></a>`,
    methods:{
        erase() {
            let id = this.data.id; // delete the item
        }
    }
});
```

```jsx
options: {
    ...
    templates: {
        erase: 'delete'
    }
    ...
}
```

This method allows you to also use single page .vue files for displaying the template data
E.g:
edit.vue

```vue
<template>
    <a class="fa fa-edit" :href="edit(data.id)">Edit</a>
</template>
<script>
    export default {
        props:['data'],
    }
</script>
```

app.vue

```vue
<script>
import edit from './edit'

templates:{
   edit
}
</script>
```

If you are using Vue 2.1.0 and above, you can use [scoped slots](https://vuejs.org/v2/guide/components.html#Scoped-Slots) to create templates:

```html
 <v-client-table :data="entries" :columns="['id', 'name' ,'age', 'edit']">
      <template slot="edit" scope="props">
        <div>
            <a class="fa fa-edit" :href="edit(props.row.id)"></a>
        </div>
      </template>
    </v-client-table>
```

**Important**:
* To use components in your templates they must be declared **globally** using `Vue.component()`.
* Templates must be declared in the `columns` prop

Note: Don't include HTML directly in your dataset, as it will be parsed as plain text.

# Child Rows

Child rows allow for a custom designed output area, namely a hidden child row underneath each row, whose content you are free to set yourself.
When using the `childRow` option you must pass a unqiue `id` property for each row, which is used to track the current state.
If your identifer key is not `id`, use the `uniqueKey` option to set it.

The syntax is identincal to that of templates:

```jsx
options:{
  ...
  childRow: function(h, row) {
    return <div>My custom content for row {row.id}</div>
  }
  ...
}
```

Or you can pass a component name: (See `Templates` above for a complete example)

```jsx
options:{
      ...
      childRow: 'row-component'
      ...
}
```

When the plugin detects a `childRow` function it appends the child rows and prepends to each row an additional toggler column with a `span` you can design to your liking.

Example styling (also found in `style.css`):
```css
.VueTables__child-row-toggler {
  width:16px;
  height:16px;
  line-height: 16px;
  display: block;
  margin: auto;
  text-align: center;
}

.VueTables__child-row-toggler--closed::before {
   content: "+";
}

.VueTables__child-row-toggler--open::before  {
    content: "-";
}
```

You can also trigger the child row toggler programmtically. E.g, to toggle the row with an id of 4:

```js
this.$refs.myTable.toggleChildRow(4); // replace myTable with your own ref
```

### Methods

Call methods on your instance using the [`ref`](http://vuejs.org/api/#ref) attribute.

* `setPage(page)`
* `setLimit(recordsPerPage)`
* `setOrder(column, isAscending)`
* `setFilter(query)` - `query` should be a string, or an object if `filterByColumn` is set to `true`.
* `refresh()` Server component only

### Events

Using Custom Events (For child-parent communication):

```html
    <v-server-table :columns="columns" url="/getData" @loaded="onLoaded"></v-server-table>
```

Using the event bus:

```jsx
Event.$on('vue-tables.loaded', function (data) {
    // Do something
});
```

Using Vuex:

    mutations:{
      ['tableName/LOADED'] (state, data) {
        // Do something
      }
    }

`vue-tables.loading` | `tableName/LOADING` (server)

Fires off when a request is sent to the server. Sends through the request data.

`vue-tables.loaded` | `tableName/LOADED` (server)

Fires off after the response data has been attached to the table. Sends through the response.

You can listen to those complementary events on a parent component and use them to add and remove a *loading indicator*, respectively.

`vue-tables.error` | `tableName/ERROR` (server-side)

Fires off if the server returns an invalid code. Sends through the error

`vue-tables.row-click` | `tableName/ROW_CLICK`

Fires off after a row was clicked. sends through the row and the mouse event.
When using the client component, if you want to recieve the *original* row, so that it can be directly mutated, you must have a unique row identifier.
The key defaults to `id`, but can be changed using the `uniqueKey` option.

# Custom Filters

Custom filters allow you to integrate your own filters into the plugin using Vue's events system.

## Client Side Filters

A. use the `customFilters` option to declare your filters, following this syntax:

```js
customFilters: [
    {
        name:'alphabet',
        callback: function(row, query) {
            return row.name[0] == query;
        }
    }
]
```

B.
* Using the event bus:

```js
Event.$emit('vue-tables.filter::alphabet', query);
```

* Using `vuex`:

```js
this.$store.commit('myTable/SET_CUSTOM_FILTER', {filter:'alphabet', value:query})
```

## Server Side Filters

A. use the `customFilters` option to declare your filters, following this syntax:

      customFilters: ['alphabet','age-range']

B. the same as in the client component.

# List Filters

When filtering by column (option `filterByColumn:true`), the `listColumns` option allows for filtering columns whose values are part of a list, using a select box instead of the default free-text filter.

For example:

      options: {
        filterByColumn:true,
        listColumns:{
          animal: [
            {id:1, text:'Dog'},
            {id:2, text:'Cat'},
            {id:3, text:'Tiger'},
            {id:4, text:'Bear'}
          ]
        }
      }

The values of this column should correspond to the `id`'s passed to the list.
They will be automatically converted to their textual representation.

# Custom Sorting (Client Component)

Sometimes you may one to override the default sorting logic which is applied uniformly to all columns.
To do so use the `customSorting` option. This is an object that recieves custom logic for specific columns.
E.g, to sort the `name` column by the last character:

```js
customSorting:{
    name: function(ascending) {
    return function(a, b) {
        var lastA = a.name[a.name.length-1].toLowerCase();
        var lastB = b.name[b.name.length-1].toLowerCase();

         if (ascending)
            return lastA <= lastB?1:-1;

        return lastA >= lastB?1:-1;
    }
}
```

# Options

Options are set in three layers, where the more particular overrides the more general.

1. Pre-defined component defaults.
2. Applicable user-defined defaults for the global Vue Instance. Passed as the second paramter to the `Use` statement.
3. Options for a single table, passed through the `options` prop.

[EXPLORE OPTIONS](//jsfiddle.net/matfish2/823jzuzc/embedded/result/)

-----------------
CSS Note: to center the pagination apply `text-align:center` to the wrapping element
